---
author: alvaroserrano
comments: false
date: 2009-11-13 11:33:00+00:00
layout: post
slug: '242479702'
title: Experimenting a bit
wordpress_id: 242479702
categories:
- Post
tags:
- movies
---

Ok, enough with the analog vs digital rant, I don’t want anybody here to think I’m some kind of analog retro-nerd :-P

Besides, it was just a weak attempt at writing something that made reference to the title of the blog. But, like I said in [the first post](http://analogsenses.com/post/238565026/first-post-the-manifest), this is not a technical blog, nor it intends to be a passionate vindication of the old ways. Truth is, I’m very happy to be living in the digital era. But a little reflection on why things are the way they are doesn’t hurt anybody, does it?

Today I would like to talk about something completely unrelated. Because I feel like it. It may take me some time to focus on a theme and a coherent structure for this blog, I need to experiment a bit with different topics, options, and so on, until I find a way to make this an interesting place to spend your fifteen minutes of choice. So I’m afraid you’ll have to bear with me until we get there. Of course, [feedback](mailto:contact@analogsenses.com) is always appreciated. Let me know what you like, and what you don’t. Thanks.

So, today it’s about writing something entertaining. And short. Short is important. It’s a resolution I’ve made recently, to try and say what I want to say using the smallest number of words possible. Because, frankly, the rest is just noise, and we have enough of that on the Internet already.

I think I’ve got it. Today it’s about a movie: [Lost in Translation](http://www.imdb.com/title/tt0335266/). If you haven’t seen it, I strongly encourage you to do it like, right now. Seriously. I’ll wait for you to be done and we’ll continue this later.

[singlepic id=11 w=600]

GO.

How’s that for short? Yeah, I thought so, too…
