---
author: alvaroserrano
comments: false
date: 2009-11-17 11:35:19+00:00
layout: post
slug: '247150731'
title: Scattered Thoughts
wordpress_id: 247150731
categories:
- Post
tags:
- movies
---

Hey,

After a weekend trip here we are again. We left off with you hurrying up to watch Lost In Translation so that I could fill your ears with how awesome the movie is, right?

Well, not quite. I mean, the movie clearly IS awesome, and produces what in my opinion is one of the greatest chemistries in a movie couple, but if you’ve seen it you already know that, and if you don’t, well you’re dead inside. Get used to it. Embrace your inner corpse, there’s nothing to be ashamed of. Now go watch some Eddie Murphy masterpiece… oh, wait.

There’s no need to keep going about how unbelievably cool the movie is, or how much I wanted to go to Japan right after I first saw it (I had always wanted to go, but after watching it I SO needed to go…). Suffice it to say, it is one of those viewing experiences that just don’t come very often. Enjoy it, savor every frame of it, and then tell people about it.

Just a teaser. My favorite scene: the karaoke moment, with Bill Murray singing More Than This. A huge distortion of reality that for a brief moment just feels so right…

Anyway, moving on to other stuff. I’ll let you know when I think of something.

[singlepic id=10 w=600]

SO good.

[singlepic id=8 w=400]

And remember: **Be Original**. The true you is always good enough. In fact, it’s awesome. How haven’t you noticed before?
