---
author: alvaroserrano
comments: false
date: 2009-11-18 12:45:54+00:00
layout: post
sharing: true
slug: '248408596'
title: Meet the gang
wordpress_id: 248408596
categories:
- Post
---

Today I would like to introduce you to some of my friends. Let me bring you up to speed: On occasion, I will need to make up a fictional story in order to prove a point. When that happens, it wouldn't be nice of me to mention real people because well, chances are they wouldn't be very happy with how the story ends.  
  
To avoid hurting anyone's feelings, these stories will be featuring a bunch of guys I'm very familiar with, but that are… let's just say, slightly less than real. Fictional characters, if you will. They are my buddies, and I usually refer to them as **_the gang_**. Over the years they have become an inside joke between my friends and I (the actual ones, I do have some of those, too), and so I have gotten used to mentioning them in my stories.   
  
Please, allow me to introduce you to the gang.  
  
First up are three guys that do everything together. They're practically inseparable, and whenever one of them is alone it is always because something incredible has happened. Meet **Perry, Larry and Clifford.**  
  
For some reason, Perry is much more likely to be seen alone than any of the other two. You get the idea.  
  
Then there's another bunch of guys which are sometimes seen with Perry, Larry and Clifford, whenever the situation calls for it. Because sometimes three people are just not enough. They are **McAllister, O'Brian and Numerov.**  
  
And finally, the latest additions to the gang are two awesome guys. They're the players, the ladies' men. The winners. Meet **Elmer and Flanagan.**  
  
I do hope you guys get along. You'll be hearing a lot from them, trust me.  
  
I guess that is all for today, I will leave you now so you can get to know each other better.  
  
Cheers!
