---
author: alvaroserrano
comments: false
date: 2010-02-21 19:51:31+00:00
layout: post
slug: '402507814'
title: On Evasion and Sanity
wordpress_id: 402507814
categories:
- Post
tags:
- Life
---

Hey there,  
  
It's funny how life always seems to have a few surprises in store for you. It reminds me of the song "Ironic", by Alanis Morissette. I'll come back to this in the future, I just wanted to get it out there.  
  
Lately I've been getting the feeling that my work has kept me away from tending to the blog in the way it deserves. My apologies. It's actually not just my blog that's gotten out of control, but my personal life as well. You should know, however, that this irresponsible behavior won't persist much longer. In about two weeks time, most of my commitments will either be met or forever gone, so I will find myself with some much-needed time on my hands to reflect, build on original ideas and exercise the creative muscles of my mind.  
  
It's always been like this. When I'm not building, I'm not happy. I can't possibly be. Ideas start piling up in my head until I can't take it any more, and I need to take a free day to do something about it. To be myself, period. Sometimes that involves staring at the ceiling for extended periods of time; others you will find me drawing with ten sheets of paper and seven different charcoal sticks scattered on the table; or frantically typing on my laptop, and if you talk to me, chances are I won't hear a word you're saying: I'm in, deep.   
  
I think we all need these periods of readjustment. One can only function in society for so long, especially with all this global connectivity trend becoming more and more the norm. That reminds me, the post I've been working on lately is a formal attempt to capture my opinion on social networking. That is well underway, and it should be done soon, although I really can't say when exactly. Just as a teaser, think about the perverse pleasure you get when the phone rings, and you just let it keep ringing. The second it's over, you feel great. You have successfully evaded the pressure of the outside world, and are actively choosing to dedicate some time to yourself. That's big. We don't have nearly enough time for ourselves, and as a result we are all inevitably underdeveloped and scattered as human beings. How many times have you found yourself without a self-assured opinion about a certain topic, only because you never dedicated any time to consider the issue?  
  
It's simple, the people we find most attractive are those who show self-confidence and trust in their instincts on any given day. Think about the people you admire, your idols. It's that determination and laser-like focus that sets them apart from the rest of us. That only comes from self-knowledge.  
  
More on that soon.  
  
Until then, be good to each other.  
  
Cheers,  
  
Álvaro
