---
layout: post
title: "Timeless vs Ephemeral"
date: 2014-10-27 13:22:35 +0100
comments: true
categories:
- Digital Life
---

There's an aspect of modern society that bothers me to no end. It used to be that things were made to last, and there was a certain pride in owning something that used to belong to your grandfather, or even your great grandfather. Today, the list of things we own and purchase that could possibly make such a claim in 50 years is exceedingly short, and getting shorter by the day.

It seem obvious that today's industrial prowess is vastly superior to that of a hundred years ago: we have better materials, better construction techniques and, more importantly, a much better understanding of what makes everything work together. It baffles me that the main consequence of all this refinement and increased knowledge is that we're now making products with remarkably short lifespans. It's almost like a cruel joke on craftsmen of the past.

There's [a great quote](http://www.quotationspage.com/quote/782.html) by Robert X. Cringely that always makes me laugh, even though it really shouldn't:

> If the automobile had followed the same development cycle as the computer, a Rolls-Royce would today cost $100, get a million miles per gallon, and explode once a year, killing everyone inside.

Clearly something has changed in the past century, with the vast majority of industries making a massive shift from making products designed and manufactured to stand the test of time to making good-enough products that cost way less to make, and that people will be happy to replace every few years. The consumer electronics industry is the poster child for this philosophy, with most people replacing several-hundred-dollar gadgets every other year — or even every year! — with no complaints about it whatsoever. We just don't demand durability and longevity as consumers nearly as much as we once did. And to be honest, I find this a bit troublesome.

Take the original iPad mini, for example. It's powered by [Apple's A5 chip](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Apple_A5), a dual-core SoC that debuted in March 2011 with the [iPad 2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/IPad_2). This chip that represented the bleeding edge of technology just three and a half years ago is today considered a relic, with people even calling the mini "[the zombie iPad](http://www.allenpike.com/2014/the-ipad-zombie/)", because of its refusal to die.

What troubles me is that for the most part I agree with those people. The fact that Apple is still selling a device with 3-year-old technology strikes me as ludicrous, but should it? Are we really that far gone down the consumerism rabbit hole that we see a 3-year-old product as a joke? Shouldn't that be considered just a barely-acceptable timeframe for replacing a product that debuted at $329 and went as high as $659?

Now, I get why companies like Apple favor this strategy: it makes for a much better — read: predictable — revenue cycle and it keeps investors happy. It creates a pattern that ensures people will keep buying your stuff without giving it a second thought. Convincing society to replace perfectly working technology and products may be the single greatest marketing stunt in history.

It clearly has worked out brilliantly for the companies that are selling the products. As for consumers, though, I'm not so sure. I believe we're getting the short end of a very lucrative stick, and — this is the real kicker — we've mostly done it to ourselves.

Rapidly-evolving industries have several important consumer-facing benefits, of course: you get to spend less money each time and in return you get to upgrade the performance of your products more frequently. It seems like a win for both sides, and perhaps it may be in the case of the tech industry. But this trend towards frequent upgrades has become the norm in many other industries, in which the consumer-facing benefits are much harder to identify, if they even exist. And even in the case of the tech industry, are we to assume that there's no other way to foster innovation? 

Let me make one thing clear: I'm not arguing that Apple should slow down on the release cycle for new devices. Quite the contrary, I believe the fact that there's a new iPad every year means people who want or need one will get a better device and therefore a better use of their money. What I believe, though, is that there should be considerable less pressure to upgrade old iOS devices.[^1] This pressure is mostly generated in two ways:

[^1]: Macs, for whatever reason, are way less susceptible to upgrade pressure, with both my 6-year-old iMac and my 4-year-old MacBook Pro being prime examples of this. Apple does a pretty good job when it comes to the longevity of their desktop and laptop computers, I just wish this was also true for iOS devices.

* Phone carriers offer subsidies for their customers to upgrade their phones, which are typically tied to 2-year contracts. This immediately and artificially creates a 2-year upgrade cycle that most consumers are happy to accept, regardless of whether it actually makes sense to upgrade a 2-year-old phone that for the most part is still perfectly usable. Hey, cheap phone every 2 years, what's not to like? Except they're not cheap at all, and subsidies are not saving customers any money. Quite the opposite, in fact: it keeps them spending way more than they need to every month in a never-ending cycle where carriers win far more than their customers do.

* Apple creates additional pressure with their breakneck pace of hardware and software updates. Now, this pressure is not immediately obvious, because they have typically done a good job of supporting older devices in new iOS releases. This sounds like a good thing, but it's actually masking a pretty important issue: Apple requires 3rd-party developers to test that their apps work on every supported device for each iOS release. This means developers have to support a wide range of devices with vastly different performance and features. Apple itself cheats here, because they can exclude certain features from older devices at the OS level, something that is not available to 3rd-party developers, who can only do so much to reduce the amount of computational power their apps require to function properly in older hardware. In the case of graphics-intensive apps like games or photo-editing apps, most developers resort to lowering the quality of textures and the amount of detail shown in the app, which often results in a poor experience that puts pressure on consumers to upgrade.

Both things could be easily solved, but since people don't really seem to care, they probably won't be. Phone subsidies are one of the most poisonous practices in the tech industry, and yet carriers are still perfectly able to get away with it. Apple could also easily provide some API's to developers in order to exclude older devices from their apps. However, the truth is as consumers, we're more worried about having the latest and greatest than we are about getting the best out of the products we own.

It wasn't always like this. There was a time when durability and reliability were the hallmarks of excellence in most industries, and consumers valued them as such. Where did we go wrong?

Let's take cars, for example. Not that long ago, cars were designed to be repaired instead of replaced. Most times you could even open the hood and fix it yourself, if you knew what you were doing. Today, cars are like black boxes and repair jobs are typically reduced to replacing components from factory. Now, modern cars are clearly better in many important areas: they're much more efficient, reliable and safe than ever. And yet, for some inexplicable reason, these newer, better cars are replaced much more often than they've ever been. What is so unsightly about a 10-year-old car? Why that obsession with replacing something that works?

Another great example is the shaving industry. Back in the early 20th-century, Gillete found a way to disrupt the established technology by introducing [disposable razors and blades](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Safety_razor) that promised the convenience of not needing to be cared for and maintained. Much like phone subsidies, this turned out to resonate well with consumers and the shaving industry shifted towards this newer model, which for the most part remains relevant today. Gone are the [straight razors](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Straight_razor) of old, which were made of quality steel that could last for generations if properly cared for. Instead, we got the latest Fusion Pro Glide, and every couple shaves you have to throw away 5 blades. In this case, the price of convenience is far too high — quite literally too, because disposable razors are way more expensive in the long run.

It also happens with clothing. Companies like H&M and Zara have made billions of dollars selling affordable clothes that self-destruct after a few washes. And god forbid you should wear the same clothes for more than one season. Meanwhile, I own a leather jacket that looks better today than when I bought it 10 years ago, and they'll bury me in it if I can help it.

And what about writing instruments? You can buy a pack of [Bic pens](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bic_Cristal) for a few cents each, as opposed to spending upwards of $100 on [a quality fountain pen](http://www.amazon.com/gp/product/B0036EGL8W/ref=as_li_tl?ie=UTF8&camp=1789&creative=390957&creativeASIN=B0036EGL8W&linkCode=as2&tag=analsens03-20&linkId=7WDW7OMWDUW4274K). But the experience will be nowhere near as nice, you'll end up generating a lot more residue and in the long run, it will probably also be a lot more expensive.

It's a trick on the mind that as a society we've swallowed hook, line and sinker: spend less now but keep spending it all the time, as opposed to spend as much as you can once on something that will last forever. Luckily, there are exceptions, and some companies still worry about creating timeless products. Unfortunately, these companies are often relegated to serving niche markets — albeit very lucrative ones. Sadly, the battle for the mass market is long lost, and there's no going back. 

Maybe things could have worked out differently. I keep trying to imagine a world where craftsmanship was still the measure of quality, and all companies tried to build the very best products they possibly could. With modern technology, I'm not even sure what that world would look like, but I bet it would be a lot more interesting than what we have today. Surely Gillete could use all they've learned in the past 40 years to make a safety razor that would last for ages without even needing to be sharpened or cared for in years. Or perhaps we would only buy one iPhone body ever that would cost over $1000 but offer upgradeability of its internal components. There's that possibility now with the Apple Watch — particularly the Edition model — and it will be interesting to see if Apple goes that route, or if they try to make watches as disposable as any other technology. Personally I hope for the former, and I hope it starts a trend towards non-disposable devices and a renewed appreciation for craftsmanship. However, if I'm being honest, I'm not quite holding my breath on that one.

I usually get attached to most of the things I own, and I enjoy using them for as long as I possibly can. I don't do it just for the sake of being responsible on environmentally conscious — although those are very important things — I just enjoy my things and the emotional bond I create with them. 

My appreciation for timeless design and craftsmanship informs many of the decisions I make in my everyday life: I write with a fountain pen, I own a nice watch — nice doesn't have to mean ridiculously expensive, mind you — and I buy quality items whenever I can. I've used only 3 pairs of winter boots in the past 15 years, all of them the exact same model. I also ride bicycles that are almost as old as I am, and that my children will hopefully enjoy riding one day as well. I haven't quite mastered the art of straight razor shaving yet — mostly because I haven't been clean-shaven in over four years — but I like to think that if I started shaving again, I would probably purchase a quality straight razor and take it from there. I dream of one day owning a Leica camera — possibly even a film one — and it will probably be the last camera I ever buy.

I'm making it sound like a personal crusade, but the truth is I'm nowhere near being an extremist. Replaceable technology certainly has its place and I consume it in some ways, just like everyone else. I'm just not comfortable letting that habit creep into every aspect of my life, and I refuse to be the kind of person that doesn't appreciate the value of things. It fills me with joy whenever I'm consciously enjoying doing something the old fashioned way. It reminds me of a time when people were deliberate about their actions and their purchases. It's a time that's not gone forever, if you know how to look for it. It's also easier than you think, and the journey is its own reward.